=head1 XuLA-200 Board Design Projects

Each of these directories contains a complete Xilinx ISE WebPACK 13 design project.

=over 4

=item * blinker

A simple LED blinker design from chapter 4 of the book "FPGAs!? Now What?".

=item * counter

A simple 26-bit counter that is driven by a 100 MHz clock and whose bits are output
through the prototyping header. This is a good design to check the functioning of
the XuLA board. I<Check the setting for the startup-clock - either JTAGCLK or CCLK -
to make sure it complies with how you are using the XuLA board - either USB-connected
or standalone.>

=item * fast_blinker

The LED blinker design sped-up by using a DCM from chapter 5 of the book "FPGAs!? Now What?".

=item * fintf_jtag

This design is used by GXSLOAD when it needs to read or write the contents of the
serial flash configuration memory on the XuLA board.

=item * fjmem_intfc

This design is used to interface the XuLA board to the UrJtag tools.
It is not yet ready for general release, so it is currently not supported.

=item * hostio_test

This design is used to test the ability of the HostIo modules to pass
data back-and-forth between the FPGA and the host PC.

=item * rand_test

This design uses the hostio module to gather samples from the random-number generator module.

=item * logic_analyzer

This is a version of the Sump logic analyzer for the XuLA board.
It is not yet completely functional.

=item * ramintfc_jtag

This design is used by GXSLOAD when it needs to read or write the contents of the
SDRAM on the XuLA board.

=item * sdram_test

This design is a simple tester for the SDRAM that reports success or failure
through the prototyping header rather than sending the status through the JTAG
and USB links.

=item * test_board_jtag

This design is used by GXSTEST to test the SDRAM and report the success or failure
through the JTAG and USB links.

=item * vga_bram

This is a character-based VGA module. I<It uses a third-party VGA controller and not the 
VGA module in the XuLA_lib directory.>

=back
